# Forkify

Forkify is a web application that allows users to search for recipes, view recipe details, and save their favorite recipes. It utilizes the Forkify API to fetch recipe data and displays it in an interactive and user-friendly interface. Created in the JavaScript Course by Jonas Schmedtmann, it is written in Vanilla JavaScript using Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) principles.

## Features

- **Search Recipes**: Search for recipes by entering keywords.
- **View Recipe Details**: View detailed instructions, ingredients, and cooking times.
- **Adjust Serving Sizes**: Dynamically adjust ingredient quantities based on the desired number of servings.
- **Save Favorites**: Save your favorite recipes to easily access them later.

## Technologies and Techniques

Forkify was built using the following technologies and techniques:

- **HTML5**: Structuring the web content and layout.
- **CSS3**: Styling the application with responsive design principles, including Flexbox and Grid Layout.
- **JavaScript (ES6+)**: The core programming language used to develop the application logic, interact with the API, and manipulate the DOM.
- **Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)**: Used to structure the application with classes, encapsulating functionality into reusable components.
- **Modules**: ES6 modules are used to organize and separate the code into manageable pieces, promoting code reusability and maintainability.
- **Asynchronous Programming**: Utilized async/await and Promises to handle API requests and ensure smooth user interactions.
- **Event Handling**: Implemented event listeners for handling user interactions like search queries, serving adjustments, and saving favorites.
- **State Management**: Managed application state to ensure consistent data flow between different components of the app.
- **Error Handling**: Implemented robust error handling with try/catch blocks to manage API errors and user input issues.
- **Parcel**: A bundler used to compile and optimize the JavaScript, CSS, and assets for deployment. Parcel automates many of the build tasks and optimizes the final output for performance.
- **Forkify API**: An external API used to fetch real-time recipe data based on user search queries.

## Project Architecture

The project structure includes:

- **src/**: Contains the source code, including HTML, CSS, JavaScript files, and assets.
- **dist/**: The production-ready build generated by Parcel.
- **.parcel-cache/**: Cache directory used by Parcel for faster builds.

## Installation

To get started with Forkify, follow these steps:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/tal-mat/forkify.git

# Navigate to the project directory
cd forkify

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build the project
npm run build

# Start the application
npm start
